Usage patterns for data tends to change over time.
For data created today,
it is most likely accessed today.
It is less likely it'll be accessed next week.
Even less likely that is will be accessed next month,
and a year from now,
it's unlikely it'll be accessed with any frequency, generally speaking.
In many cases, we could save lots of money by having
S3 objects change their storage tiers over time.
This is what S3 lifecycle policies allow us to do.
You define a lifecycle policy on a bucket
and what action should happen over what period of time.
You could have an object stay in standard storage for
three months and then moved to infrequently
access storage for a year and then to glacier.
You can also do this for only certain types of objects in
a bucket or for certain subsections within a bucket.
Another option you have is to just delete an object after certain amount of time.
There is no cheaper storage than not storing at all.
As we store more and more data from more and more sources,
it's important to consider how your data storage cost will grow over time and when
the cost of storing data exceeds
the value of being able to access it if you would ever need it.
S3 events allow you to take action when things happen in your S3 buckets.
For example, S3 events allow you to run
a Lambda function on the activity of objects in your S3 bucket.
You could run a Lambda on the creation of any object.
If you had a bucket that stored photos.
When a photo were uploaded to that bucket and S3 event could trigger
a Lambda function to go and create multiple resolutions of that photo.
S3 events have many potential uses.
That photo scenario is a example of a common use case,
decoupling file uploading from power processing.
You can turn on versioning for an S3 bucket.
This thing keeps every version of an object.
So if you upload a document to S3,
then modify it and then modify it again,
S3 keeps three copies of that object.
To your application, it will look like there is
just one object that has your most recent changes.
But if you dig into the details of the object,
you will see that S3 is holding on to all copies of that object.
With versioning turned on,
you can delete an object and it will disappear from your bucket,
but it will not be gone.
S3 uses what it calls delete markers to allow you to even recover deleted objects.
This functionality allows you to have a safety net under your S3 buckets.
Accidental changes can be undone.
You can go back at any time and see what the original version of an object look like.
If a system became compromised by attackers and they try to run
a ransomware attack where they encrypted all of
your files and wanted you to pay for the encryption key,
you could calmly revert all of the objects
back to the last version and go on with your day.